1
I'll explain the LEVEL clause in SQL, focusing on its use in hierarchical queries:

What it is:

The LEVEL clause is a pseudocolumn, meaning it's not a real column in a table but a value generated during query execution.
It's used in conjunction with hierarchical queries to indicate the hierarchical level of each row in the result set.
It's primarily found in Oracle databases, but some other databases have similar functionality using different syntax.
How it works:

Start with the CONNECT BY clause: This clause defines the relationship between parent and child rows in the hierarchy.
Use LEVEL within the SELECT statement: The LEVEL clause assigns a numerical value to each row, representing its depth in the hierarchy:
Root rows have a LEVEL of 1.
Child rows have a LEVEL one greater than their parent row.
Example:

Consider a table containing employee data, including a self-referential MANAGER_ID column:

SQL
SELECT employee_id, manager_id, level
FROM employees
START
 
WITH manager_id IS
 
NULL

CONNECT
 
BY PRIOR employee_id = manager_id;
Use code with caution. Learn more
This query does the following:

Starts with employees who have no manager (root of the hierarchy).
Connects each employee to their manager (based on MANAGER_ID).
Displays the employee ID, manager ID, and hierarchical level for each row.
Output:

EMPLOYEE_ID  MANAGER_ID  LEVEL
-----------  ----------  ------
100          NULL        1     (Root employee)
101          100         2     (Employee reporting to 100)
102          101         3     (Employee reporting to 101)
103          100         2     (Another employee reporting to 100)
Additional points:

You can use LEVEL in other parts of the query, such as ORDER BY or WHERE clauses.
Some databases have extensions to LEVEL, like CONNECT_BY_ROOT for accessing root values.
If you're not using Oracle, check your database's documentation for similar functionality.
Sources
github.com/Mickai55/FMI-Unibuc-Homework